
DXY2PS((1L))      MISC. REFERENCE MANUAL PAGES       DXY2PS((1L))



NAME
     dxy2ps - A Roland DXY plot command filter to PostScript

SYNOPSIS
     dxy2ps [-amr] [-l line sizes] [-s  scale]  [-x  offset]  [-y
     offset] [plotfile]

DESCRIPTION
     This filter is used to convert the Roland DXY and the Roland
     Graphics Language (RD-GL) (which is a superset of the Hewlet
     Packard Graphics Language (HP-GL)) commands to PostScript.

     The RD-GL commands are only operated on if each  command  is
     prefixed with a "^", therfore if your plotfile only contains
     HP-GL or RD-GL commands use the filter hpgl2ps.

     The default conditions for dxy2ps are:

     1.   The plot translation is from ISO A3 (420mm x 297mm)  to
          ISO A4 (297mm x 210mm) on the LaserWriter.

     2.   Line thicknesses are in millimeters and are  for  lines
          (pens)  1  to  9:  ( 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.7, 1.0,
          1.25, 1.5 )

     Note:
          If the plotfile is not specified then standard input is
          assumed.

ARGUMENTS
     -a   Draw on an A4 ISO (297mm x 210mm) sheet of paper.  This
          will  give  an aproximate 1:1 translation to the Laser-
          Writer.

     -l line sizes
          This  option  allows  the  default  line  sizes  to  be
          replaced  with different sizes starting from line (pen)
          one through nine. The new sizes (real or  integer)  are
          entered in a comma seperated string (line size) and are
          in millimeters. Only the sizes entered  in  the  string
          will  be  changed  with  respect to lines (pens) one to
          nine while nonentered line (pen) sizes will retain  the
          default sizes.

          In the following example only  the  first  three  sizes
          will be changed.

          eg: dxy2ps -l 0.4,0.3,1 file | lpr -Plaser1

     -m   Enable the manual feed on the LaserWriter (cutoff  time
          3 minutes)

     -r   Rotate plot(s) through 90 degrees. (The  plot  is  made
          smaller)

     -s scale Scale the plot from 0.1 to 3 times its original
          size.

     -x offset Place an X offset (in mm) in the plot.

     -y offset Place an Y offset (in mm) in the plot.

     Note: Offsets are with respect to the 0, 0 (origin)  of  the
     HP-GL  /  RD-GL plotting commands, thus if the minimum plot-
     ting coordinates are below either the X and/or Y  zero  axis
     then a positive offset is applied.  Similarly if the minimum
     plot coordinates are above the X and/or Y zero axis  then  a
     negative offset is applied.


BUGS
     Some of the graphics commands are unimplemented and a  warn-
     ing will be displayed. If this command is vital then it must
     be written into the code.

     No interactive command is suported.

