
HPGL2PS((1L))     MISC. REFERENCE MANUAL PAGES      HPGL2PS((1L))



NAME
     hpgl2ps - A HP  (Hewlet  Packard)  plot  command  filter  to
     PostScript

SYNOPSIS
     hpgl2ps [-AB43mr] [-l line sizes] [-s scale] [-x offset] [-y
     offset]  [-h  font  height multiplier] [-w font width multi-
     plier] [plotfile]

DESCRIPTION
     This filter  is  used  to  convert  Hewlet  Packard  Graphic
     Language  (HP-GL)  7550A plotter commands to PostScript. The
     HP-GL commands are a subset of the  Roland  plotter  command
     set (RD-GL).

     The default conditions for hpgl2ps are:

     A.   The plot translation is from an ANSI A (8.5  x  11inch)
          plot to ANSI A paper on the LaserWriter.  See below for
          other paper sizes.

     B.   Line thicknesses are in millimeters and are  for  lines
          (pens)  1  to  9:  ( 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.7, 1.0,
          1.25, 1.5 )

     C.   The default font is Helvetica, 14 point on  the  Laser-
          writer.

     D.   The default font height and width multipliers  are  1.2
          and 3.6 respectively.

     Note:
          If the plotfile is not specified then standard input is
          assumed.

ARGUMENTS
     -A   Draw for an ANSI A (11 x 8.5inch) plot.

     -B   Draw for an ANSI B (17 x 11inch) plot.

     -4   Draw for an A4 ISO (297mm x 210mm) plot. This will give
          an aproximate 1:1 translation to the LaserWriter.

     -3   Draw for an A3 ISO (420mm x 297mm) plot.

     -l line sizes
          This  option  allows  the  default  line  sizes  to  be
          replaced  with different sizes starting from line (pen)
          one through nine. The new sizes (real or  integer)  are
          entered in a comma seperated string (line size) and are
          in millimeters. Only the sizes entered  in  the  string
          will  be  changed  with  respect to lines (pens) one to
          nine while nonentered line (pen) sizes will retain  the
          default sizes.

          In the following example only  the  first  three  sizes
          will be changed.

          eg: hpgl2ps -l 0.4,0.3,1 file | lpr -Plaser1

     -m   Enable the manual feed on the LaserWriter (cutoff  time
          3 minutes).

     -r   Rotate plot(s) through 90 degrees. (The  plot  is  made
          smaller)

     -s scale Scale the plot from 0.1 to 3 times its original
          size.

     -w relative font width multiplier  When the SR command
          exists in the HP-GL file, the  size  of  characters  is
          scaled  to  be  a  proportion  of the paper dimensions.
          The HP7550 plotter character sizes are larger than  the
          scaling  suggests.  The default value of the font width
          multiplier scales the characters in the postscript file
          to appear roughly the same width as the original.  Set-
          ting to 1.0 reverts to the original scaling.

     -w relative font height multiplier  When the SR command
          exists in the HP-GL file, the  size  of  characters  is
          scaled  to  be  a  proportion  of the paper dimensions.
          The HP7550 plotter character sizes are larger than  the
          scaling suggests.  The default value of the font height
          multiplier scales the characters in the postscript file
          to appear roughly the same width as the original.  Set-
          ting to 1.0 reverts to the original scaling.

     -x offset Place an X offset (in mm) in the plot.

     -y offset Place an Y offset (in mm) in the plot.

     Note: Offsets are with respect to the 0, 0 (origin)  of  the
     HP-GL  /  RD-GL plotting commands, thus if the minimum plot-
     ting coordinates are below either the X and/or Y  zero  axis
     then a positive offset is applied.  Similarly if the minimum
     plot coordinates are above the X and/or Y zero axis  then  a
     negative offset is applied.



BUGS
     Some of the graphics commands are unimplemented and a  warn-
     ing will be displayed. If this command is vital then it must
     be written into the code.

     No interactive command is suported.

